CI/CD isn't for every team,
but I dare say it is for most teams.
Let's try a quick assessment.
Get out a pen and paper and mark with an X for every question you can answer with a yes.
Do you invest more time developing software than coding it?
You know it. Do you waste time on merge issues every time you finish a feature?
Yes. Does your code get lost because of botched merges?
Unfortunately, yes.
Does your unit test suite gets skipped often?
Does it have failing tests from days or weeks ago?
Are you wondering what a unit test is?
Do slow deployments make you miss deadlines?
Is there a constant friction between ops and development departments?
There's only one person know how to deploy a system the right way,
are you that right person?
Are deployments dreaded by the team or are they dreaded by you?
Now be honest, how many X's do you have on your paper?
If you have more than one,
I'd say CI/CD is right for your team.
If you have no X's,
I'd say you couldn't find a pen or your team is made up of super humans.
Now since super humans only exists in movies,
it's safe to say, you've come to the right place.
Now that I've painted a beautiful Utopian picture of CI/CD,
I'd be irresponsible if I didn't throw a little mud on it in the right places.
Before starting down the road of CI/CD for your team,
you should definitely count the costs.
There may be a few taxes to pay.
Let's take a look at a few things that you might need to give up if you adopt CI/CD.
Since CI/CD will be in charge of deployments,
you should definitely give up manual deployments altogether.
Automation doesn't play nice with manual processes.
Your infrastructure as code will be handling provisioning now.
So, no more modification of environment settings manually.
You'll need to start showing some more love to your unit test suite.
No more neglecting and leaving them to fail for days or weeks.
Although I know it's not you doing this,
but let's say we're asking for a friend,
no more leaving broken code in place for other developers to stumble upon.
CI/CD requires a high level of discipline.
This is going to require your entire team to level up and develop some new disciplines.
Adding CI/CD to your team means that you're going to need to
acquire some additional skills to maintain and extend the system.
Now that being said, I really do think it's worth it.
You're still here with me,
so, I take it you agree.